# wcl-lake-data-caa
Repository for publishing physicochemical data from Lake Lunz, Lunz am See, Austria

## Site description
The Lunzer See/Seebach (Lower Austria) LTER site is operated by the WasserCluster Lunz – Biologische Station GmbH and serves as a long-term research and monitoring area. The site aims to achieve a better understanding of ecosystem causal relationships and of the interactions between fundamental processes in aquatic ecosystems. The WasserCluster Lunz is an inter-university center for research into aquatic ecosystems and water-related research issues, founded by the University of Vienna, the Vienna University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, and the Danube University in Krems.

Numerous institutions that are engaged with basic research, ecosys­tem research and monitoring and socioeconomic research currently belong to the Eisenwurzen platform. In the international context, Lunzer See is the first lake in Austria to become a member site within the Global Lake Ecological Observatory Network (GLEON; http://www.gleon.org). This membership marks the beginning of joint measurement programs together with international partners and thus creates the basis for continual carbon measurement in lakes. An aim is to streng­then the role of the WasserCluster Lunz as initiator of carbon measurement in lakes through international cooperation. Existing research cooperation with universities and non-university research institutions provides an important basis for this. In terms of measurement technology, the Lunzer See/Seebach site is a highly equipped landscape ecology catchment area and represents a typical as well as very natural site within the Northern Limestone Alps. Online measurements of carbon dioxide, oxygen and methane in Seebach, in Lunzer See and in the atmosphere enable high temporal resolution analysis of the exchange processes. The weather records at the Biological Station climate monitoring station extend back to 1898 and complete records are available from 1926 onwards.
